docs: add beta agent pre-run script page (#631)
tembo/docs: beta/agent-post-trigger-hook.mdx

<Note>
  Post-trigger hooks aren't meant for configuring dependencies. See [Tembo Snapshots](/features/snapshots) instead.
</Note>

## Prerequisites

- Agent post-trigger hooks must be enabled for your organization or user account.
- You need permission to edit the agent.

## Configure a post-trigger hook

1. Open the agent you want to configure.
2. Add any valid shell command to the field labeled "Post-trigger hook".
3. Save the agent.
4. Trigger the agent.

The script runs in `/workspace`, after Tembo sets up the repository and before the agent harness starts.

## How output affects the agent

When the script succeeds, Tembo captures what the script prints and adds it to the agent's starting thread as pre-run context. This is the main way to get dynamically fetched output into the agent run.

Print the information the agent should use to standard output. Markdown, plain text, and compact JSON all work well. Keep it focused on the decision the agent needs to make, such as the issue URL, current state, acceptance criteria, relevant logs, or links to source records.

> Use standard error for diagnostics that help you debug the hook. Do not rely on standard error as the place to give the agent required context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Print the information the agent should use to standard output (e.g. `echo`). Markdown, plain text, and compact JSON all work well. 

```

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
set -euo pipefail

echo "## Pre-run context"
echo
echo "- Source: Linear"
echo "- Issue: TEM-123"
echo "- Goal: reproduce the failing test and open a fix PR"
```

> When the script exits with a non-zero status, Tembo stops the run before the agent starts. Use this behavior for required validation that should block the agent from working with an incomplete environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the script exits with a non-zero status, Tembo stops the run before the agent starts. Use this behavior for required validation that should block the agent from working with an incomplete environment.
```

## Trigger payloads

> For triggered agent runs, Tembo exposes the trigger payload to the script through the `TRIGGER_PAYLOAD` environment variable. For most integration triggers, Tembo provides the payload shape automatically. For webhook-triggered runs, this is the JSON request body sent to the [trigger endpoint](/api/trigger-agent).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For triggered agent runs, Tembo exposes the trigger payload to the script through the `TRIGGER_PAYLOAD` environment variable. For most integration triggers, Tembo provides the payload shape automatically. 
```

> Use the payload to decide what extra context to fetch, print, or validate. The agent receives both the trigger payload and the hook's standard output, so print the result of the check instead of restating fields that are already in the payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the payload to decide what extra context to fetch, print, or validate. The agent receives both the trigger payload and the hook's standard output, so there is no need to restate fields that are already in the payload.
```

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
set -euo pipefail

issue_identifier="$(jq -r '.issue.identifier // .issue.key // "unknown"' <<< "$TRIGGER_PAYLOAD")"
description="$(jq -r '.issue.description // .issue.body // ""' <<< "$TRIGGER_PAYLOAD")"

if [[ -z "${description//[[:space:]]/}" ]]; then
  echo "Linear issue ${issue_identifier} does not have a description. Add implementation context before running Tembo." >&2
  exit 1
fi

echo "## Linear ticket check"
echo
echo "- Issue: ${issue_identifier}"
echo "- Description: present"
```

The hook output above is appended to the agent's starting context. If the description is missing, the non-zero exit code stops the agent before it starts.

If the hook needs to fetch more detail, print the final useful summary, not only the raw payload:

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
set -euo pipefail

issue_url="$(jq -r '.issue_url' <<< "$TRIGGER_PAYLOAD")"

issue_json="$(gh issue view "$issue_url" --json title,body,labels,state)"

{
  echo "## GitHub issue context"
  echo
  echo "$issue_json" | jq -r '"Title: \(.title)\nState: \(.state)\nLabels: \(.labels | map(.name) | join(", "))\n\n\(.body)"'
}

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "Agent post-trigger hooks"
description: "Run a custom setup script before an agent starts."
hidden: true
---

<Warning>
  This feature is in beta. This page is intentionally unlisted and available only by direct URL.
</Warning>

> Agent post-trigger hooks are user-defined shell commands that run in the sandbox before a triggered agent starts. They execute after Tembo prepares the workspace and before the agent begins work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agent post-trigger hooks are user-defined shell commands that run in the sandbox before a triggered agent starts. They execute after Tembo prepares the workspace but before the agent begins work.
```

Use post-trigger hooks to provide the agent with context that can be deterministically fetched, or to check conditions before the agent runs. A non-zero exit code will prevent the agent from running.

<Note>
  Post-trigger hooks aren't meant for configuring dependencies. See [Tembo Snapshots](/features/snapshots) instead.
</Note>

## Prerequisites

- Agent post-trigger hooks must be enabled for your organization or user account.
- You need permission to edit the agent.

## Configure a post-trigger hook

1. Open the agent you want to configure.
2. Add any valid shell command to the field labeled "Post-trigger hook".
3. Save the agent.
4. Trigger the agent.

> The script runs in `/workspace`, after Tembo sets up the repository and before the agent harness starts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script runs in `/workspace`, after Tembo sets up the repository and before the agent session starts.
```

## How output affects the agent

When the script succeeds, Tembo captures what the script prints and adds it to the agent's starting thread as pre-run context. This is the primary way to get dynamically fetched output into the agent run.

Print the information the agent should use to standard output (e.g. `echo`). Markdown, plain text, and compact JSON all work well.

## Example: Generic

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

hidden: true
---

<Warning>
  This feature is in beta. This page is intentionally unlisted and available only by direct URL.
</Warning>

Agent post-trigger hooks are user-defined shell commands that run in the sandbox before a triggered agent starts. They execute after Tembo prepares the workspace and before the agent begins work.

Use post-trigger hooks to provide the agent with context that can be deterministically fetched, or to check conditions before the agent runs. A non-zero exit code will prevent the agent from running.

<Note>
  Post-trigger hooks aren't meant for configuring dependencies. See [Tembo Snapshots](/features/snapshots) instead.
</Note>

## Prerequisites

- Agent post-trigger hooks must be enabled for your organization or user account.
- You need permission to edit the agent.

## Configure a post-trigger hook

1. Open the agent you want to configure.
2. Add any valid shell command to the field labeled "Post-trigger hook".
3. Save the agent.
4. Trigger the agent.

The script runs in `/workspace`, after Tembo sets up the repository and before the agent harness starts.

## How output affects the agent

> When the script succeeds, Tembo captures what the script prints and adds it to the agent's starting thread as pre-run context. This is the main way to get dynamically fetched output into the agent run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the script succeeds, Tembo captures what the script prints and adds it to the agent's starting thread as pre-run context. This is the primary way to get dynamically fetched output into the agent run.
```

Print the information the agent should use to standard output (e.g. `echo`). Markdown, plain text, and compact JSON all work well. 

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
set -euo pipefail

echo "## Pre-run context"
echo
echo "- Source: Linear"
echo "- Issue: TEM-123"
echo "- Goal: reproduce the failing test and open a fix PR"
```

> If the script exits with a non-zero status, Tembo stops the run before the agent starts. Use this behavior for required validation that should block the agent from working with an incomplete environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Print the information the agent should use to standard output (e.g. `echo`). Markdown, plain text, and compact JSON all work well.

## Example: Generic

```bash
# Run a script and surface its output to the agent
./scripts/check-preconditions.sh

# Stop the run if a required secret isn't set
if [ -z "$DEPLOY_TOKEN" ]; then
  echo "DEPLOY_TOKEN is not set; skipping run."
  exit 1
fi
```

**If the script exits with a non-zero status, Tembo will stop the run before the agent starts.** Use this to guard against wasted runs: when required inputs are missing, preconditions aren't met, or there's simply no work to do.

## Example: Agent triggered from a Linear issue

When an Agent is tagged in a Linear issue, it starts with only that issue's title and description. Use pre-run hooks to fetch surrounding context it would otherwise be missing.

```bash
# Fetch the full issue, including the comment thread where decisions usually live
linear issue view "$LINEAR_ISSUE_ID" --comments

# Surface any existing PRs for the issue so the agent doesn't redo in-flight work
gh pr list --search "$LINEAR_ISSUE_ID" --json number,title,url
```
```

## Example Usage

```bash
# Run a script and surface its output to the agent
./scripts/check-preconditions.sh

# Stop the run if a required secret isn't set
if [ -z "$DEPLOY_TOKEN" ]; then
  echo "DEPLOY_TOKEN is not set; skipping run."
  exit 1
fi
```

If the script exits with a non-zero status, Tembo stops the run before the agent starts. Use this to prevent a wasted run: when required inputs are missing, preconditions aren't met, or there's simply no work to do..

## Trigger payloads

For triggered agent runs, Tembo exposes the trigger payload to the script through the `TRIGGER_PAYLOAD` environment variable. For most integration triggers, Tembo provides the payload shape automatically. 

Use the payload to decide what extra context to fetch, print, or validate. The agent receives both the trigger payload and the hook's standard output, so there is no need to restate fields that are already in the payload.

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
set -euo pipefail

issue_identifier="$(jq -r '.issue.identifier // .issue.key // "unknown"' <<< "$TRIGGER_PAYLOAD")"
description="$(jq -r '.issue.description // .issue.body // ""' <<< "$TRIGGER_PAYLOAD")"

> if [[ -z "${description//[[:space:]]/}" ]]; then
>   echo "Linear issue ${issue_identifier} does not have a description. Add implementation context before running Tembo." >&2
>   exit 1
> fi
> 
> echo "## Linear ticket check"
> echo
> echo "- Issue: ${issue_identifier}"
> echo "- Description: present"
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash
### Check if a Linear Ticket has a description before starting the session
issue_identifier="$(jq -r '.issue.identifier // .issue.key // "unknown"' <<< "$TRIGGER_PAYLOAD")"
description="$(jq -r '.issue.description // .issue.body // ""' <<< "$TRIGGER_PAYLOAD")"

if [[ -z "${description//[[:space:]]/}" ]]; then
  echo "Linear issue ${issue_identifier} does not have a description. Add implementation context before running Tembo." >&2
  exit 1
fi
```
````

Use post-trigger hooks to provide the agent with context that can be deterministically fetched, or to check conditions before the agent runs. A non-zero exit code will prevent the agent from running.

<Note>
  Post-trigger hooks aren't meant for configuring dependencies. See [Tembo Snapshots](/features/snapshots) instead.
</Note>

## Prerequisites

- Agent post-trigger hooks must be enabled for your organization or user account.
- You need permission to edit the agent.

## Configure a post-trigger hook

1. Open the agent you want to configure.
2. Add any valid shell command to the field labeled "Post-trigger hook".
3. Save the agent.
4. Trigger the agent.

The script runs in `/workspace`, after Tembo sets up the repository and before the agent session starts.

## How output affects the agent

When the script succeeds, Tembo captures what the script prints and adds it to the agent's starting thread as pre-run context. This is the primary way to get dynamically fetched output into the agent run.

Print the information the agent should use to standard output (e.g. `echo`). Markdown, plain text, and compact JSON all work well.

> Print the information the agent should use to standard output (e.g. `echo`). Markdown, plain text, and compact JSON all work well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "Agent post-trigger hooks"
description: "Run a custom setup script before an agent starts."
hidden: true
---

<Note>
  This feature is in beta. This page is intentionally unlisted and available only by direct URL.

> </Note>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Warning>
  This feature is in beta. This page is intentionally unlisted and available only by direct URL.
</Warning>
```

## Configure a post-trigger hook

1. Open the agent you want to configure.
2. Add any valid shell command to the field labeled "Post-trigger hook".
3. Save the agent.
4. Trigger the agent.

The script runs in `/workspace`, after Tembo sets up the repository and before the agent harness starts.

## How output affects the agent

When the script succeeds, Tembo captures what the script prints and adds it to the agent's starting thread as pre-run context. This is the main way to get dynamically fetched output into the agent run.

Print the information the agent should use to standard output. Markdown, plain text, and compact JSON all work well. Keep it focused on the decision the agent needs to make, such as the issue URL, current state, acceptance criteria, relevant logs, or links to source records.

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
set -euo pipefail

echo "## Pre-run context"
echo
echo "- Source: Linear"
echo "- Issue: TEM-123"
echo "- Goal: reproduce the failing test and open a fix PR"
```

If the script exits with a non-zero status, Tembo stops the run before the agent starts. Use this behavior for required validation that should block the agent.

## Trigger payloads

> For triggered Agent runs, Tembo makes the trigger payload available to the post-trigger hook through the `TRIGGER_PAYLOAD` environment variable. For webhook-triggered runs, this is the JSON request body sent to the [trigger endpoint](/api/trigger-agent).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For triggered Agent runs, Tembo makes the trigger payload available to the post-trigger hook through the `TRIGGER_PAYLOAD` environment variable.
```

<Note>
  Post-trigger hooks aren't meant for configuring dependencies. See [Tembo Snapshots](/features/snapshots) instead.
</Note>

## Prerequisites

- Agent post-trigger hooks must be enabled for your organization or user account.
- You need permission to edit the agent.

## Configure a post-trigger hook

1. Open the agent you want to configure.
2. Add any valid shell command to the field labeled "Post-trigger hook".
3. Save the agent.
4. Trigger the agent.

The script runs in `/workspace`, after Tembo sets up the repository and before the agent harness starts.

## How output affects the agent

When the script succeeds, Tembo captures what the script prints and adds it to the agent's starting thread as pre-run context. This is the main way to get dynamically fetched output into the agent run.

Print the information the agent should use to standard output. Markdown, plain text, and compact JSON all work well. Keep it focused on the decision the agent needs to make, such as the issue URL, current state, acceptance criteria, relevant logs, or links to source records.

> Use standard error for diagnostics that help you debug the hook. Do not rely on standard error as the place to give the agent required context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```bash
#!/usr/bin/env bash
set -euo pipefail

echo "## Pre-run context"
echo
echo "- Source: Linear"
echo "- Issue: TEM-123"
echo "- Goal: reproduce the failing test and open a fix PR"
```

When the script exits with a non-zero status, Tembo stops the run before the agent starts. Use this behavior for required validation that should block the agent from working with an incomplete environment.

## Trigger payloads

> For triggered agent runs, Tembo exposes the trigger payload to the script through the `TRIGGER_PAYLOAD` environment variable. For webhook-triggered runs, this is the JSON request body sent to the [trigger endpoint](/api/trigger-agent).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For triggered Agent runs, Tembo makes the trigger payload available to the post-trigger hook through the `TRIGGER_PAYLOAD` environment variable. For webhook-triggered runs, this is the JSON request body sent to the [trigger endpoint](/api/trigger-agent).
```
